Pick up the phone!
Hey. Kasem.
This is a coincidence.
What are you doing here?
You have something that
doesn't belong to you.
I do?
The very expensive painting rolled
up in the tube on your back.
Belongs to my boss.
I'm not really sure
it belongs to him.
A bit ambiguous who it
belongs to. isn't it?
Ambiguous.
It's open to a multiplicity of meanings.
like confusing or vague or just unclear.
Let me make it not ambiguous.
Let me make it very clear.
Okay.
No need for any of that.
All right. Let me just
find a place to pull over.
You got me a little
boxed in here.
Careful.
Move. Excuse me. Excuse me.
Watch out. Sorry.
Excuse me.
Watch.
Watch out.
Hey. Luke. Where are you?
The plane's ready to go.
Murph. I'm not gonna
make it to the airport.
I need another way.
Luke? Hello?
Take the train out of
Bangkok to Chiang Mai.
I'll meet you at the airfield.
Sorry. Yep. Sorry.
Honk. honk. Coming through.
Honk. honk. Come on.
Sorry! Coming through.
Sorry.
Go. go. go. go. go.
Watch out.
You talk in your sleep.
So I've been told.
Anything...
scandalous?
Depends on your boundaries.
Nothing incriminating.
Let me try again.
Sadly. I don't think
we have time for that.
Are we getting
ahead of ourselves?
Should we start with names?
I think the less you know
the better. Mr. Purdue.
You are not here on vacation.
No.
Business.
What business are you in?
I recover rare and
unique paintings.
Sometimes in leather tubes.
Well. that's a coincidence.
So. where do we go from here?
I think you know
where we go from here.
I'm the hand of mercy.
My associates are
the hand of judgment.
You choose.
Well. there's a third option.
- There is?
- Yes.
You have foolishly overlooked
my team of lethal bodyguards.
Don't be fooled by their
innocuous appearance.
They are each a wolf
in sheep's clothing.
So. either you surrender now.
or I will be forced to
release my dogs of war.
I think I like my chances.
Well...
hand of mercy it is then.
I do like a happy ending.
You're not with Kasem?
Who's Kasem?
- Luke?
- Murph. train didn't work out either.
Wait. What?
Oh. no.
What else you got?
Just give me a second.
There's a bus stop about an
hour's walk from where you are.
Just come pick me up.
No more motorbikes.
No more trains.
Not interested in walking.
I'm not interested in buses.
Murph. you have to
come pick me up.
From the house on
Strathmore Gardens.
Mr. Cross would like the
carpets in the front hall.
the portrait. the grandfather clock.
the drawing room couch. the...
The green couch?
You hate the green couch.
If we may continue.
Harold. this isn't
what we agreed on.
We agreed to settle this
amicably with a neutral mediator.
Don't be so naive. Charlotte.
Where did you think we
were going to end up?
Well. not on the 17th floor
being ambushed by your lawyer.
It is what it is.
We are where we are.
Well. I don't care
about furniture.
but we are not going to squabble
over the custody of our son.
You should get
yourself a lawyer.
Emily. can you please
lock up the west wing?
I'm gonna go check on
the Holbein restoration.
- Okay. See you later.
- See you.
It's a remarkable painting.
Wonderful silk slippers.
Luke. why are you in England?
Charlotte. it's
been almost a year.
Can't a brother drop in
to see his kid sister?
How's the family?
- Young Thomas?
- He's wonderful.
He's also brilliant.
- And the husband? Henry?
- Harold.
Not so brilliant.
Turns out he's as
loyal as a tomcat.
I'm sorry to hear that.
But you are a masterpiece.
and he is a monkey.
I could've told you
it wouldn't work out.
Not today. Luke. It's too raw.
Are you in trouble again?
Charlotte. do you think this is
really what you should be doing?
Oh. thank God. I'm saved.
You're a life coach now.
Don't mention it.
It's a brother's duty.
I like what I do.
and I'm good at it.
No. I know that's what
you have to tell yourself.
but the three of us. we
had such great adventures.
Don't you miss that?
Yeah. but that
was ten years ago.
Dad died. I was raising a baby.
juggling a job. and
I had to grow up.
Not exactly sure
what happened to you.
Well. you call
yourself a curator.
but I think there's a unnatural
split in the Holy Family.
Between the Virgin Mary
and the baby Jesus.
- No. there isn't.
- Yes. there is.
In the Levenstede the Younger.
- I can't see anything.
- Really?
Take a look between the two angels.
and then between their halos.
Follow that line straight through
our baby Savior into his ten.
tiny but fat. pink toes.
And there. in the blue velvet...
you'll find it.
Luke!
What are you doing?
Luke! Don't do this to me!
Luke! What is this?
You've been in the country ten
minutes. What. did you steal this too?
You give that painting back.
I will. but first. get in
and you can have it back.
No.
- It's now or never.
- No.
You're not gonna
make it outta here.
Well. you underestimate
my choice in cars.
Give the painting back.
Oh. come on. Charlotte.
- You're not here for that.
- Luke. listen to me. Give it back.
You don't want
the painting back.
You want your old life back.
Sorry!
Sweet baby Jesus.
And his fat little toes.
This has to stop.
Murph. catch.
Deb. are we good?
We're all good.
Deb!
You're still working
with Dad's old team?
Deb. Murphy.
Charlotte.
What are you doing
to my painting?
He's wearing gloves.
Nothing has changed.
You've got your prize. and
tomorrow. it still won't be enough.
It's an arrival fallacy.
You keep telling yourself
you'll be satisfied
when you're holding that trophy in
your hands. but you never will be.
You're just chasing a pot of
gold at the end of a rainbow.
Well. at least I
believe in something.
You've outsmarted yourself into not
even believing that there can be a pot.
You've chosen comfort and predictability.
and you've put your entire life on hold.
But. Charlotte. life
is about the adventure.
People don't climb mountains to just
get to some treasure at the top.
And no. I can't reconcile
Dad's great mystery
about why the journey's more
important than the prize.
but I do know that you
have to go on the journey.
Murph?
- There's nothing there.
- That's not good.
What's not good?
Nothing.
I'm sorry.
To both of you. It's
been a long day.
- Stop.
- Charlotte. you're right and I'm wrong.
and you're my sister
and I love you.
I'm gonna make all this right.
You can have your painting.
I'll take you back.
But I can see you're
doing that thing.
I just need you to breathe.
When she's mad.
you stop breathing.
Come on. We'll do
it together. right?
I love you. Do you forgive me?
- No.
- Okay.
Well. we're just gonna breathe.
Let's all close our eyes.
And on three. One. two. three.
- Luke.
- It's plausible deniability.
Will you help me get her up?
Hi.
Hey.
Are you okay?
Yeah?
You sure?
Okay.
Forgive what seems like an inquisition.
but you are curator of this museum.
and you've been missing
for a few hours.
For the last time. if I
were involved in this crime.
do you really think I'd return
to the scene of the crime?
Well. you wouldn't be the
first criminal that has.
There's a well-known cliché
that supports that phenomenon.
And you are?
Special Detective
Jamal Abbas. Interpol.
Charlotte Purdue.
wrongfully accused.
Did you know your brother's linked to
a string of high-profile art thefts?
That. he did not mention.
- What did he mention?
- I tried to stop him for obvious reasons.
I saw that on the
security footage.
Can you at least
tell me where he is?
If I knew where he was. I assure
you you'd be the first to know
as he's put me in a
somewhat awkward position.
I'm desperate neither for
incarceration nor unemployment.
Well. allow me to assist.
But if it later transpires that
you're being somewhat disingenuous...
I would not dare be
mendacious with an official
dressed in that houndstooth.
Well. thank you for noticing.
It's wasted on most suspects.
What else did he steal?
- Is there a pattern?
- I'm sorry.
Are you a detective
as well as a curator?
It doesn't appear
that I need to be.
Looks like your
work here is done.
I heard what happened.
Thomas is staying with me.
- Harold.
- You're an accessory in an art heist.
Jesus.
My solicitor will be in
touch about revised custody.
Please don't do this.
- It's done.
- Mum.
Hey. sweetie.
You're gonna stay with Dad
a few extra nights. okay?
Is everything all right?
It will be.
Yeah. it's all right. Go
on. Go play music. Go on.
Thank you.
- Charlotte.
- Murph.
How are ya?
Not that happy actually.
Where is he?
Luke!
Lukie!
Oh. Luke!
Okay.
- She seems quite warm...
- Luke!
...so keep the cat in the
bag until I release it. yeah?
Great.
Charlotte. you look fantastic.
No thanks to you.
- Me? What did I do?
- Quite a lot actually. Luke.
- Deb.
- Charlotte.
And you are?
I'm Owen Carver.
- And you do?
- I do the money.
And which genius will explain
to me why I am now unemployed?
- You should tell her.
- Not yet.
We're looking for the
Fountain of Youth.
Oh. please no.
Not this again.
What did I just say
about the cat in the bag?
Cat wasn't happy in the bag.
And you're paying for this?
Guilty as charged.
Your motivation
being more money?
Power?
Spectacular face cream?
I'm dying. Liver cancer.
Awkward.
If the Fountain restores youth
and health. maybe it can save me.
Luke. are we going to
discuss this sensitive matter
in private or with the room?
In the room. please.
So my brother has
sold you on the idea
that there's some snake oil super
juice at the end of this journey?
No. I sold him.
Oh. I see.
Then allow me to clothe the elephant
that is stumbling around this room.
You are proposing that
there is a literal liquid
that expresses itself through a
magical fountain that. once consumed.
gives access to an
eternal bliss-filled life.
Oh. Charlotte. you
and I both know
that there's a seed of truth cloaked
within every myth. metaphor. or fable.
Herodotus wrote about it.
The Mahabharata talks about it.
Alexander the Great traveled
the world looking for it.
I know the stories.
No. One story. Five continents.
Dozens of cultures over
thousands of years.
And I'm still wondering
why you stole my Rembrandt.
- I returned it.
- Got me fired.
And now you are free to help us.
Don't you dare.
Don't you tell me that
your primal curiosities
are not piqued by
the great mysteries.
There is a ninth-century Tibetan scroll
that posits the location of the Fountain.
but it also says that that location
is being hidden from man by God.
We believe knowledge of the
location was passed down in pieces
from generation to generation amongst
the most learned families of the times.
These people were called
Protectors of the Path.
and their job is to keep that
path concealed at all costs.
And has anyone ever met
any of these Protectors?
I may have had a little
tussle with one in Thailand.
Well. if the Protectors and God thought
that this should be kept secret.
maybe there's a reason.
Charlotte. anything
of value is protected.
By God?
The bigger the prize. the
bigger the protection.
The myth of the Fountain
says it will tempt you
with everything you've ever
desired in the palm of your hands.
All you have to do is drink.
Infinite health.
wealth and beauty.
But where there is life.
there is also death.
Charlotte. this could
be the most important
archaeological
discovery in history.
and our family name will be
synonymous with its discovery.
In the 1600s. six artists made
a pact to reveal the location.
Each one hid a clue
in their paintings.
Behold Caravaggio's
The Taking of Christ.
Rubens's The Descent
From the Cross.
Wildens's Christ and Disciples
On the Road to Emmaus.
Velázquez's Christ Crucified.
El Greco's Christ
Carrying the Cross.
and look who it is.
Your Rembrandt. Head of Christ.
The El Greco was stolen from the
Gardner Museum in Boston in 1990.
and it's been missing since
then. so good luck with that.
Missing no more.
Found it in Thailand.
Jesus.
Yeah. carrying the cross.
You have a compulsion.
Some might call it a skill.
Sickness.
- Talent.
- Pathology.
Okay. it's a gift.
Each canvas is marked on
the back with invisible dye
and a secret signature
which reads. "Sex et unum."
Six and one.
Six canvases. one path.
Each is also marked
with a different letter:
D. K. C. I. E.
We just haven't figured
out what they mean yet.
Now I understand why I'm here.
Do you?
Why are you here?
I'm here to help you
solve your little riddle.
Why would I need you?
You don't like my Rembrandt.
Why don't I like your Rembrandt?
There's no markings on the back.
Why are there no
markings on the back?
It's a forgery.
It's not a forgery.
I did a computational
analysis on the brushstrokes.
It's definitely a Rembrandt.
It's a Rembrandt. It's
just not the Rembrandt.
He often made duplicates
of his own work.
You stole the wrong Rembrandt.
Yeah. and you know
where the real one is.
Not my business.
But my son is my business. and thanks
to you. I could now lose custody of him.
Then let me help you.
I have a whole army of
highfalutin lawyers.
Help me save my life. I'll
help you keep your son.
And what if you're wrong
about this little adventure?
Then at least I'll have
had a little adventure.
Thought that'd work.
You might wanna check
Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt.
He was known to have a
passion for Rembrandt.
I am going to the library.
Something smells good.
That is the exotic
aroma of danger.
But if you're here and I'm
not dead. is this a date?
No.
I'm actually here to help you avoid
getting hurt or anyone else getting hurt.
Is that really why you're here?
The train.
- I felt it.
- Oh. you did?
I'm glad someone felt something.
- Drink?
- No.
I won't be here for long.
That's a shame.
You're a child flying a
kite in a lightning storm.
That's an oddly
dramatic metaphor.
It's an appropriate one.
And the storm is more
charged than you think it is.
Do you even know
why it's hidden?
Do you even know what it is?
No. but I'm very
curious to find out.
Well. we all know what curiosity did
to the cat in spite of all its lives.
Do you think the
fountain is literal?
Metaphorical. allegorical.
metaphysical. or anagogical?
Do you think we should just get
the kiss out of the way now?
No. All right. We'll
come back to that.
I think it's valuable.
And I really appreciate that you're
always looking out for my well-being.
It's not your well-being
we're interested in.
- There's a "we"?
- Stop it now. or we will stop you.
All of you.
Which means that I
will see you again.
My God. she smells good.
He's quite good. isn't he?
Thanks for the Vanderbilt tip.
What are you here to steal
now? A child's trumpet?
We actually dug
through the archives.
so now we know where
the real Rembrandt is.
You're conning
this poor man Owen.
No. No conning.
It's actually all his idea. He
came to find Dad. he got me.
You're filling him with false
promises. and he's drinking it up.
That's called hope.
What's wrong with that?
Apart from the dubious morality?
It's a crime. dummy.
Interpol's after you.
For what? Stolen art?
Please.
Look. the fact is. Owen came to us
with an honest-to-goodness quest.
It's giving him a new lease
on life. How can that be bad?
He's happy.
Harold says I was never happy.
Was he right?
Sounds like you
should come with us.
- It's not that easy.
- Isn't it?
Yeah!
- Uncle Luke.
- That was incredible.
Look at you. Wait.
Something's missing.
What happened to your beard?
You made a big impression
on him last time.
- He asks about you a lot.
- Is that true?
Are you still going
on adventures?
Yes. I am.
In fact. I just asked your mom if
she'd come on this one with me.
What do you think?
Mum doesn't really
do adventures.
Thomas.
- I better get going.
- Yeah. Go.
He's a good kid.
So you really think you're gonna find a
magic pool of water at the end of this?
I don't know. but I
think you wanna find out.
Oh. cap.
Well. we all know that
Lusitania was the largest
cruise liner in the world.
During World War I. a
German U-boat sank her.
killing over 1.000 souls aboard.
One of those souls was the
great Vanderbilt himself.
When you said you
found the Rembrandt.
I didn't expect it to be at the
bottom of the North Atlantic.
Neither did we.
But unluckily for
us and for him.
when Alfred Vanderbilt
decided to buy it in 1915.
he brought it with
him on the Lusitania.
And it's still down there
in a watertight safe.
First-class passengers
kept their safes in the
purser's strong room
located in the front
portion of the wreck.
We've attached flotation tanks that'll
bring that portion up above crush depth
then to the surface.
Seafloor pressure.
Pressure at seafloor is 3.14.
ROV is one to 12.
Flotation tanks secured.
All right. The flotation
tanks are in place.
Captain says there's
a storm coming in.
We've got about two
hours before it hits us.
And once that storm hits.
we can't keep her afloat.
We can wait it out.
- How long?
- Twenty hours maybe.
- What do you wanna do?
- We should go now.
Copy that.
- Bring her up.
- Copy that.
Once she reaches 100 feet.
they're gonna stabilize her.
then bring her up
to the surface.
She's all yours after that.
All right. Let's go.
Oh. hello. Where
did this come from?
What you're doing is
not insignificant.
I wouldn't mind being
part of that significance.
Plus. I spent most of my night
figuring out where the purser's
strong room is on the Lusitania.
Did you really?
Look who's back. Lottie-Lou.
The Lusitania's
at a hundred feet.
Counterweights are deployed.
She'll breach in
about two minutes.
All right. You heard
her. Let's get dressed.
- Did you hear that?
- What?
First footsteps in
over a hundred years.
Luke. we're standing by.
You two kids be careful.
All right. I got this.
Follow me.
Door. please.
Reminds me of that apartment
when we were students in Paris.
Similar. This is less damp.
Careful now. That
sounded like levity.
Don't want you having any fun.
Remember the last time we
were on a boat together?
Ecuador?
Putumayo River.
Dad was looking for the gold
mask of the Inti sun god.
Poor guy never found it.
Yes. he did. I can still
see him wearing it.
What are you talking about?
You wouldn't remember anything.
You were hallucinating after
licking that toad's back.
Maybe there's a reason Dad told
me some things he didn't tell you.
- Oh. really?
- Yeah.
If he found it. then
why aren't we rich?
He found it. He didn't take it.
It's not all about money. Luke.
Unless you're getting divorced.
- Harold's a dick.
- He is a dick.
Radar contact.
- Something incoming.
- What is it?
Speed it's moving implies
it's a helicopter.
The Coast Guard?
If it was. you'd have expected
them to have hailed by now.
We need to get Luke and
Charlotte on the radio.
Luke. Come in. Luke.
- You sure we're going the right way?
- Yeah. I'm sure.
Oh. yeah.
- If you want. I can just have a look.
- You wanna teach me how to read a map?
No. I was just gonna say there's
a right way and a wrong way.
Luke. I need you to
come in. There's...
Someone's jamming our signal.
We need to get eyes on
this. Let's get upstairs.
All right. Through these doors
is the purser's strong room.
Do you think it's anything
like this purser's strong room?
Never would've found
it without you. huh?
Don't take anything
that isn't yours.
We're not thieves.
Now where do we begin?
Maybe the one that
says Vanderbilt.
Clue's in the name.
That ain't the Coast Guard.
Who is it then?
I don't know. but I bet
they want what we want.
There she is.
That is the sister I know.
All right.
Fireball.
Luke. come in.
Yahtzee!
Bring the tea.
No! We're not grave robbers.
Look. The airbag's failing.
They don't have long.
Is that a helicopter?
I don't remember having
a helicopter with us.
Oh. no.
Hello.
Again.
- Hello again.
- "Hello again"?
What's going on here?
I'm hurt. You've
not mentioned me?
We've been pretty busy.
Well. we both know why I'm here.
I don't know why you're
here. Why are you here?
Forgive me. I'm here for
yet another painting.
Well...
we both know when
we've been outgunned.
We're hit!
Don't you move!
Luke!
Give me the painting.
Buckle up. We're
going back to base.
Give me the painting.
I can't do that.
Are you really gonna make me
put a gun to your sister's head?
Give her the painting. Luke.
- She's not gonna hurt you.
- No. I am going to hurt her.
Just let me think.
What are you thinking about?
I'm thinking that...
Luke!
I'm thinking that we
can work this out.
Give me the painting.
No!
Luke!
Told you it'd be an adventure.
You good?
I'm alive. if that's
what you mean.
Success?
You got it?
Yes. we got it.
Hey. We good?
Of course. we're not good.
She wasn't gonna kill you.
- How do you know?
- Because if she killed you.
she still wouldn't have the
painting. I had the painting.
Well. that was a hell of a
risk to take with my life.
It wasn't a risk.
It was a calculation.
She seemed upset. right?
Who?
You're a clever boy.
So. how's the adventure going?
I think it's maybe a little
too adventurous for me.
Well. you are pretty boring.
Hey. Watch it. mister.
What? Boring can be cool.
Thomas.
Dad needs to talk to you.
Okay.
Say hi to Uncle Luke for me.
I need you to take
Thomas for a bit.
When? For how long?
Tomorrow and for
quite a long time.
I've signed a new
contract to go to Japan.
That sounds serious. But
I repeat. for how long?
For about a year.
A year?
I'm consulting for Carver
Enterprises in Tokyo.
Owen Carver?
How do you know?
Never mind. But of course I'll take
him. I'll pick him up tomorrow.
Sounds like good news.
What do you want? Still
not talking to you.
Are you still mad
about the Lusitania?
Charlotte. any journey
worth going on...
Don't do that.
Don't do what?
Don't give me the value of the
journey speech as an excuse.
That woman held
a gun to my head.
She's fiery. isn't she?
She's one of the Protectors. The one
I had the run-in with in Thailand.
When you say "run-in."
do you mean that weird. dysfunctional
chemistry you two had going on?
When you say "chemistry." do
you mean. like. attraction?
Like. she's attracted to me?
Oh. please. There's a
reason you're still single.
Really? Well. the pot doth
call the kettle black.
You know what. let's just
focus on the positives.
Sounds like you got your son back.
Mazel tov. Come on. We need your help.
So. where are we?
We now have all the pieces of
the path but no starting point.
so it's meaningless
without context.
It could literally be
any place on Earth.
Vanderbilt's Rembrandt
revealed the letter V.
so we have all the letters.
I'm pretty sure it's an anagram.
It'll tell us where to start.
Murph already tried matching them by
the names of cities from 500 years ago.
Nothing there.
Maybe the letters aren't a
place. Maybe they're a number.
Like a substitution code.
Let's try celestial navigation.
Let's see if the path matches
up to any constellations.
All right.
I'm not getting
anything remotely close.
Wait. Sex et unum is in Latin.
It's written on every painting.
In Latin. V is W.
Nice. Okay.
Murph. switch the V for
a W and run it again.
You feeling all right?
Good days and bad days. Thanks.
Okay. so there's only
one word that works.
"Wicked."
The paintings were
completed in the early 1600s
and who was on the English
throne in the early 1600s?
King James.
Six and one.
And wicked?
The Wicked Bible.
There she is.
I don't follow.
Six and one is a
reference to King James.
He was the sixth James
to be king of Scotland
and the first James
to be king of England.
He was the king of both at the
same time. so he is six and one.
The King James Bible is
called the King James Bible
because he was the one
who commissioned it.
And its lesser-known evil
twin is the Wicked Bible.
Okay. Go on.
In 1631. an edition was printed
of the Bible with a mistake.
It had an unusual anomaly
in the Commandments.
The word "not" was omitted from
"Thou shalt not commit adultery."
So. the verse instead read...
"Thou shalt commit adultery."
And that's why it's known
as the Wicked Bible.
But what if it wasn't a mistake?
What if it was a deliberate way to
mark specific copies of the Bible
that hold the key to
understanding the path?
Sometimes it's painfully
obvious that we're related.
We need to get one
of those Bibles.
Well. most of them were
destroyed. They're heretical.
Not all destroyed.
I think I might
know where one is.
Hands where I can see 'em.
You two. other side
of the table. Move.
Charlotte Purdue.
"Wrongfully accused."
Detective Abbas.
"If I knew where he was.
you'd be the first to know."
Nah. no need to
introduce yourselves.
I've been following you all
for the past year and a half.
I know more about you than
you know about each other.
Luke and Charlotte Purdue.
children of the esteemed
archaeologist Harrison Purdue.
And I see his old team's here as
well with one notable addition.
Owen Carver.
You two have somehow turned your father's
prestigious and legitimate concern
into an international
criminal enterprise.
You're responsible for stealing
six priceless masterpieces
on four different continents.
and unfortunately for you.
we now find ourselves with the thieves
and the paintings all under one roof.
The El Greco. the Velázquez.
the Wildens. Rubens.
Look. Charlotte.
Another Rembrandt.
And somewhere around
here is a Caravaggio.
Get down on knees.
All of you now. Now!
Now!
That includes you
too. Mr. Policeman.
I'm not happy. Luke. You make
me come long way to find you.
Find me? I've been
trying to find you.
Kasem. you gotta
pick up your phone.
You stole my boss's painting.
You make me look very bad.
Now you for chop-chop.
You think I'm dumb.
which makes you dumb.
I'm not dumb. I'm smart.
I follow him.
Mr. Interpol. Mr. Boss Man.
He very clever. He find you. but he's
not so clever to know I track him.
- Now I find you.
- And your painting's right there.
You let these four go.
and you can take it.
You'll still have me. and
I can make you very rich.
How you do that if you dead?
Look. I'm very sorry that
you had to work so hard.
but your skill and your
tenacity clearly paid off.
Take a look around.
There's five paintings in
here. You can have them all.
Well. now. they're mine anyway.
Not one.
Caravaggio.
And that is the big f... shining cherry
on top of all the other five cherries.
So. you let these four go.
and I'll tell you where it is.
Okay.
You four. Go.
- Luke.
- Don't argue.
- Is this a good idea?
- Just do as you're told.
Where is it?
It's right over...
here.
Luke is getting away!
All clear?
Luke.
Luke!
Don't drink.
Luke. drink.
Oh. my God.
You realize you still
talk in your sleep. right?
So I keep being told.
I'm now a fugitive of justice.
Thankfully. my son is
now with me on the lam.
Wow. Is that two?
Three. Just getting started.
Well. it took some time.
but we finally found
that sense of adventure
you've been lacking.
Found or forced into
that sense of adventure?
I thought my next adventure was
going to be raising a family
but turned out that was
trickier than I expected.
You should try it sometime.
I don't envy your situation. But
I am sorry about the marriage.
I thought he would change.
Turns out. despite my best efforts. he
has all the characteristics of a dog.
So. does that mean he
could lick his own...
Except the loyalty.
Loyalty.
Husband. cheater. Boo.
Free champagne. Yeah.
Well. look at her now.
Back in the saddle.
I'm back on the trail.
You knew I was gonna
get in that car.
Charlotte. I know you
better than you know you.
Ever since we were kids. even
when you said no to an adventure.
what you really mean was yes.
If you would always
just let me help you.
No. Let me help you help me.
Now was that three
glasses or three bottles?
What?
Okay.
What do you think you're
gonna get from this fountain?
Nothing.
Dad. Recognition.
He deserves it.
What? He didn't insist
upon it. but I will.
After what he achieved.
the world owes it to him
and our family name
deserves to be revered.
I don't need reverence.
Dad certainly doesn't need
reverence. 'cause he's dead.
Well. that's unkind.
So what you're really saying
is. you need reverence.
No. That's not what I meant.
I know you better
than you know you.
I don't think you do because
I don't drink champagne.
Excuse me. could we have
the bottle please? Thanks.
Thank you.
I see. Just warming up.
Now you put me on the adventure.
let me enjoy the adventure.
- I really don't like leaving him.
- He's fine. He's with a billionaire.
What's that supposed to mean?
Some of it might rub off.
All right. Murph.
you stay out here.
Well. in that case. here. Take
these. Put 'em in your ears.
- We'll stay in touch.
- Great.
Librarian incoming.
- Mr. Purdue. I assume.
- Yes.
I am the head of the
rare books department.
It's a great pleasure to
welcome you and your team.
Mr. Carver has been
quite generous.
Ms. Purdue. may I just say.
your paper on Picasso's
pre-cubist work was phenomenal.
Thank you.
Wunderbar.
Yeah. so would you
like to follow me?
So. just keep a lookout for
police or assassins. Mafia.
- Monkeypox.
- Four horsemen.
Angina.
- Ebola.
- Rabies.
- Babies?
- I said rabies.
This is the best
restaurant in Vienna.
I'm sure they'll take
great care of you.
I will now leave you in
peace. but before I go.
may I say the board was thrilled
to receive such a generous
donation to the library.
You're very welcome.
Please thank them for
accommodating my research team.
Well. I will relay
the sentiment.
- Auf Wiedersehen.
- Bye.
Do you want a drink?
Or do you want a drink?
No. I'm fine for the
moment. Thank you.
I hear you're some sort
of musical prodigy.
That's what I'm told.
I get the feeling you're
not one for small talk.
I get a similar feeling.
My mother said you're
rich. Do you mind if I pry?
The floor is yours.
How rich are you?
Embarrassingly rich.
Does it start with a B?
- Yes. it does.
- Do you have a boat?
Yes. I do.
- How big?
- 120 meters.
- Do you have a plane?
- You were just on my plane. and I have...
- Impressive.
- Not necessarily.
There are planes and
then there are planes.
You were on the baby one.
Now. it's my turn.
One moment.
You did say the floor was mine.
Uh-huh.
Are you satisfied?
Of course not.
Did you set me
up? That was good.
Fräulein. two
glasses of champagne.
So. our private collection
is kept back here.
Not many people get to see this.
The Wicked Bible
is our crown jewel.
Now. are you interested
in something specific?
I'll let you guess.
I assume. like everybody else.
you would like to see
the infamous misprint
in the Ten Commandments. yes?
"Thou shalt commit adultery."
That is what makes it wicked.
In fact. it is not
the only thing.
There is another misprint
in Deuteronomy 5.
"Behold. the Lord our God hath shown
us his glory and his great ass."
Well. I think we're all
looking forward to seeing that.
Please.
Remember you're
tourists. not tough guys.
Okay. there's been
a development.
Luke. your girlfriend's
here with an army of pals.
- Well. that's complicated.
- What do you wanna do?
- Sorry. what is complicated?
- Leave it to me.
Leave what to you?
Could you direct me to
the little boys' room?
Got anything?
Nothing yet. Are
you sure he's here?
He'll be here. He's just
good at blending in.
All exits are blocked.
Where is that vicious bitch?
Well. that was easy.
Good. You made it.
Looking for a book?
You know they're all in German?
Do you have recommendations?
Nietzsche.
Not many happy endings there.
Strangely just like being
abandoned on a sinking ship.
You know. I did mean to
say I'm sorry about that.
But Nietzsche said that
what doesn't kill you...
only makes you more angry.
Well. on that note.
Okay.
Guns or knives. butch?
I have a scarf.
Better for me. But I'll
give you a fighting chance.
Clearly I was kidding.
Hey.
Sorry.
My sister thinks...
I'm sorry.
As I was saying.
My sister thinks this is a
dysfunctional relationship.
I think your sister's right.
Stop making this so complicated
otherwise I'm gonna
have to kill you.
"Otherwise"? You just tried to
stab me in the eye with a knife.
That was just to slow you down.
It was?
Well. I apologize because
I clearly misunderstood.
Friends?
- You don't want what you're looking for.
- Okay.
All right. I think I
bought us a minute.
Can someone cut me down?
Okay. they've covered
all the exits.
We're gonna need
to go to plan B.
Any joy?
No joy.
Well. that's
disappointing. Deb. plan B.
Plan B.
You smell that?
No.
I can smell it.
Oh. God. That smells like smoke.
- I smell smoke.
- What?
Smoke? I don't smell smoke.
You have to close your
eyes. Breathe in deep.
What are you doing?
We can't do this here.
It'll take too long.
Oh. no. I did not
sign up for this.
We were supposed to find the
thing we need and then leave.
Now this very nice librarian
is unconscious on
the f... Is she dead?
She's not dead.
What? And now you're gonna steal
another precious cultural artifact?
Charlotte. we are not in the
zoo. We are in the jungle.
We're not in a jungle.
We're in a public library.
The point is. what we're
doing is unpredictable
and when the situation changes.
you have to change with it.
That is why I always
have a good plan B.
No. you're not listening to me.
This is just like it
was on the Lusitania.
I didn't agree then to be
attacked by a dysfunctional woman
- who was trying to kill us...
- You were right about her.
...and I do not agree now to
be complicit in gassing a woman
and-and stealing
religious literature.
It was a spray.
Look. this is a very unique situation.
and it's uncomfortable. I get it.
But it's also part of the
adventure. so no good journey
doesn't have its hurdles
and obstacles to overcome.
Yes. but not when the
journey ends in jail.
We're not going to jail.
- How do you know?
- Because I've done this a lot.
and it never ends in jail.
Sometimes it ends in jail.
- Deb. please stick to your bomb.
- Bomb?
It's not a bomb.
Bombs are for children. It's a
controlled directional explosive.
Three. two...
one.
Oh. shit.
And Daddy bird is
leaving the nest.
All right. I'll be waiting for
you over at the fountain exit.
All right. Grab your
stuff. Off we go.
Where is my Bible?
I'll take you for a
spin in the big plane
if you don't tell your
ma about the champagne.
Now. if you stay close to me. there's
absolutely no reason to be scared.
Scared about what?
Get in.
It's probably best not to tell
her about the fight either.
- Happy ending.
- Praise the Lord.
What's that smell?
Uncle Luke thought it'd be
fun to crawl through a sewer.
Don't let her convince
you it's her first time.
What about you boys?
We had a lovely Wiener
schnitzel. didn't we?
And a bottle of champagne.
Champagne?
Champagne's only 12%.
And then Owen had
to beat two guys up.
It was quite surprising
and impressive.
Owen did what now?
The Protectors only wanted me.
He was never in any danger.
They attacked you?
It's not as dramatic
as it sounds.
Not strictly true. It
was quite dramatic.
Luke.
- He seems fine.
- Yeah. Mum. I'm fine.
There is nothing
fine about this.
Have you washed your hands?
Come with me.
- Are you drunk?
- What are you talking about? I'm 11.
Drink?
We need to find Owen Carver.
We need trackers on every
plane. car. and boat he owns.
So. where are we?
All right. So we scanned the Bible twice.
and there's nothing in the text proper.
But in the gilding on the pages.
we've isolated a 1.029
digit repeating pattern
that's constructed using
only the digits one to seven.
A code?
Whoever created it had to use a
system that anyone can understand
regardless of
language or culture.
Numbers.
The problem is we've tried
rotation ciphers. transpositions.
even asymmetric key ciphers.
Nothing works.
- You can't crack it?
- We will.
We will.
Are you sure the
code's numerical?
Where are you going?
This was a mistake.
Okay. Is this about
the sewers? I'm sorry.
Thomas shouldn't be here.
I understand. I do.
And given what's happened. I'm
sure you're very frightened.
But the truth is.
this is good for him.
This is real life.
What with the setback and the
hardships. and it's like Dad said.
the reward is the journey. not
the prize at the end of it.
That's the credo I live by.
No. it isn't.
You've taken what Dad did.
and you've corrupted it
into blatant criminality.
All you care about is the prize at the
end and the glory that goes along with it.
You're obsessed with it. Luke. That's
not what Dad was talking about.
It almost feels like
that's been brewing a bit.
I'm not doing this.
No. because you live by
his ethos every day. right?
I'm sorry my life isn't
exciting and showy.
But you know what it was? It
was safe until you showed up.
- Safe?
- Yes.
Where's the joy? You're
not even on a journey.
Be honest. You've been
happier in the last five days
than you have in the last
five years. Yeah? Yeah.
And Dad?
He'd be embarrassed
of you at a museum.
You're not a curator.
You're an exhibit.
Come on.
Dad was all we had in common.
Now he's gone. looks
like we have nothing.
That's a bit... Charlotte.
- Let's go. Thomas.
- Charlotte.
Mum. Mum. wait.
How serious is this?
Not at all.
Can we keep going please?
- Mum!
- Merci.
- I'm sorry. I know you've had a hard day.
- But Mum...
I'm gonna find us a hotel. I'm gonna
get you some dinner and then...
- Mum!
- What?
It's not maths.
The pattern they
found. It's not maths.
It's no good. Luke. The
code's a brick wall.
Then we've gone wrong somewhere.
We're missing something.
Hey.
- Hello.
- No. I don't wanna hear it.
Sorry.
Thomas.
These seven digits
aren't numbers.
They're musical notes.
What?
Most universal
language there is.
And for the record.
an 11-year-old figured that out
where the experts struggled.
Can you write the notes down?
I can do better than that.
Murph.
Play it again. Thomas.
Okay. I got it.
The song is called
"Water in the Desert."
It's old. Nobody
knows who wrote it.
but it honors the Seven
Wonders of the Ancient World.
Could you show me a map?
Now highlight the Seven
Ancient Wonders of the World.
Lay the path from
the paintings on top.
All six points line
up... except one.
Six and one. The
seventh location.
And there's only one Ancient
Wonder left in the world.
The Pyramids of Giza.
Thomas.
Pack your bags.
What do you mean pack your bags?
We're going to Egypt.
We can't just drop
everything and go to Egypt.
- Well. we could.
- No.
You said it was about the
journey. not the reward.
No one is going anywhere unless
there's some kind of security.
I totally agree.
So just to reassure you.
it's already taken care of.
I have a whole team on standby.
They can travel with us.
I promise you I'll
keep him safe.
What am I saying? No. Even
with security. no way.
Luke.
If you get the opportunity to
drink from the Fountain. will you?
I think you have me confused
with the terminally ill
gentleman looking for a cure.
What exactly do you
know about Owen Carver?
I know that none of this
would be possible without him.
He said he was gonna use his
lawyers to get me my son back
and instead he relocated my
ex-husband halfway across the world.
And are we not
grateful for this?
He should've consulted me. Thomas
can't see his father at all now.
You know how he made
his money. right?
He takes over companies like he's
declaring war on Europe in the 1930s.
Okay. well that was
then and this is now.
People change when
they're dying.
I think he wants to make amends
for his avarice and for his greed.
I think he wants to leave
behind a positive legacy.
I think he just wants
to drink and get better.
I just hope he's not intending
to bottle it and sell it.
Go to sleep.
I have failed. sir.
No. You haven't failed
until they succeed.
They have the Bible.
That's unfortunate.
Do they know what
to take from it?
He'll work it out.
Well. in the 400 years since it's
been printed. no one ever has.
He's different.
He'll succeed.
Let me remind you
that he can't succeed.
And let me remind you of your inherited
legacy to protect mankind from itself.
There's a reason why
the Fountain was hidden.
And there's a reason why.
for thousands of years.
we have ensured that
it remain that way.
It is simply too powerful.
dangerous. and tempting
for mankind to decide
for themselves.
Do they even know what
they're looking for?
How literal shall I be?
Eternal life. Youth. Beauty.
Wealth. Health. Power.
Shall I go on?
In another word. what
they consider salvation.
But there's a bit
more there than that.
So far. you have chosen
to show great restraint.
And I find that commendable
but sadly ineffective.
You have tried
the hand of mercy.
Now it is time to be
the hand of judgment.
Do you know what this is for?
The Pyramids of Giza were
built about 2.600 BC.
and the pharaohs were
obsessed with secret chambers.
Now they built them
into the pyramids
to hide the scrolls and the
knowledge of their time.
If they were secret. how do
you know they were there?
Well. look at you. smarty-pants.
A few years ago. some scientists
used technology called muography
to do a three-dimensional
scan of the pyramids.
Take a look at that.
How'd you get hold of these?
Well. we have moneybags
to thank for that.
And look what the scans found.
Secret chambers.
Tons of them. And chambers that have
never been accessed until today.
You all right?
When we get there. if we find
something. just be careful.
Charlotte. are you
worried about me?
Remember Inti the sun
god's golden mask?
You never asked why
Dad didn't take it.
considering he spent most of
his life searching for it.
And I assume you can
circle that square.
- I asked.
- And he said.
"The journey and the prize."
He said. "Some things you can't
explain. you can only experience."
So please. be careful.
Professor Bishara?
Mr. Carver.
- So pleased we could accommodate you.
- Yeah.
Nobody knows more about the history of
these pyramids than Professor Bishara.
Deb. Murph. Stay out here.
Keep an eye on this lot.
Understood.
Westerguard. you set up
a perimeter. Let's move.
Not quite sure why
they need so many bags.
Or what's in them.
The pyramids were sealed for
3.000 years until 820 AD...
mind your heads...
when Abdullah Al-Ma'mun commissioned men
to open them and search for treasure.
That is when this original
entrance was discovered.
- Since then...
- Wow.
...we have found the gallery and
beyond that. the King's Chamber.
This way.
And if we wanted to get below
the chamber. to go underneath...
My friend. there
is no underneath.
According to our scans there is.
Praeger.
- Let's go.
- Sir.
All right. boys.
Let's get to it.
What are you doing?
No. You cannot do this.
Sorry. Professor.
Time is against us.
If I had a year and a half to go through
all the necessary admin and permissions.
believe me. I would.
but I'm dying.
I don't have that luxury.
- I'm sure you understand.
- No.
Mr. Carver. this is
completely unacceptable.
Then I hope you'll
accept my apologies.
Could we get rid of
the professor. please?
- Miller.
- This way. Professor.
- No. You cannot do this.
- Get him out of here.
- No! Mr. Carver. this is a sacred space.
- Go. now!
- Mr. Carver!
- Owen. he's right.
We can work our way in. There's
got to be a trigger or sequence.
Just give me an hour.
I can find my way in.
- I can't.
- Hold on.
A moment ago you said a year and a half
and now you won't even give me an hour?
If I give you an hour.
it'll turn into three hours.
and then that'll turn
into dot. dot. dot.
We could be here for weeks.
I think everybody should step back.
I don't want anybody getting hurt.
That's good.
Thomas. Come with me.
How do you feel about this?
Look. Bishara's right of course.
But Owen does have a point.
Charlotte. it's here.
I can feel it.
Does it really matter
how we get down there?
Yes. it does.
I'm telling you how
we get there matters.
Guys. we've come a
long way. All of us.
Once you see the prize that's waiting
on the other side of that wall.
this conversation
will be meaningless.
- Come on.
- Mum. come on.
I'm not sure I like
the look of that.
Don't like the look of that.
Leave everyone behind.
Stay here.
There's a passageway.
Look who just walked in.
Good afternoon. gentlemen.
Good afternoon. sir. I'm
afraid the pyramid's closed.
Oh. that is disappointing. I
was really hoping to come in.
Not today. I'm afraid.
Private function.
Well. I come in peace.
But I really do need to get in.
However if that's gonna be a problem. I
have a big stick that can clear the way.
But I also have a big stick...
to block the way.
Understood.
It's a private function.
Enjoy your tea.
Whose team are we on?
We'll wait to see who's winning.
I can feel a storm impending.
According to the scan.
we go straight down.
through the center of this room.
It's gotta be under that.
Then that needs to move.
- Let's get the lights up.
- Yes. sir.
What is it?
It's a keystone.
and it moves to this plinth.
We just have to figure out
how to get it over there.
Let's just move it.
Gentlemen. pull out your
biggest guns. We will need them.
This is International Police.
Watch out! Watch out!
Move!
It's not gonna move.
It's locked in place.
The Egyptians were
brilliant engineers.
There must be a
way to move this.
We just need a moment
to figure it out.
While you're thinking about that.
we'll be getting on with it.
- Praeger. tools.
- Yes. sir.
Miller. get those back to
him. Get the hand tools.
Get the sledgehammer.
Luke.
The temperature has changed.
Why are there guns
in their bags?
Well. they are
security. Charlotte.
This doesn't feel right.
He's not listening.
Look. the guy's burnt a
bonfire of cash getting here.
- okay?
- Praeger.
We can't be surprised
he's excited.
He thinks his
salvation's under there.
Whoa. you can't just keep
smashing your way through.
This ain't gonna work. sir.
It's fossilized basalt.
We'll be here for a week.
We bring the explosives?
What? Owen. we're not gonna
set off explosives down here.
They're professionals. They know what
they're doing. It's perfectly safe.
This room is 5.000 years old.
There's no way it's
perfectly safe.
You could bring down the
whole structure on us.
I'm with my sister on that.
- Then I suggest you step back.
- You step back.
- Leave us a second.
- You're not thinking straight.
Sorry. do you think you're
in charge of this whole op...
Do you think that
just having money
allows you to burn
the entire place down?
You coming?
Well. if you're
going. I'm coming.
Make sure we're not followed.
Stay here. No one follows us.
Yes. sir.
All right. guys. You heard him.
Let's get those doorways covered.
This has escalated quickly.
It's time to join
the losing side.
You coming with me?
Cover me!
Get on that .50.
You picked the wrong side...
so now I'll teach you a lesson.
All clear.
Get a medic!
I saw what you did out there.
Are we on the same team?
Let's hope so.
Praeger. I think maybe
you should go first.
These inscriptions...
they're all paradoxical.
What do you mean?
"The blessings
that are a curse."
"Angels that are demons."
"Salvation mixed
with damnation."
"Blessed is he who
drinks without thirst.
The thirsty man
betrays himself."
It's a dead end.
This looks like
the tree of life.
Earliest depictions would
go back to Babylonian times.
This panel represents
early maps.
The four corners of the world
surrounding the tree of life.
This is the Goddess Naunet.
And this is amber. Formed
from the resin of tree bark.
It protects the tree of life.
Ancient civilizations refer
to it as the burning stone.
The tree of life cannot
grow without the sun.
Is that it?
I think that's it.
That's a long way down.
You got any ideas?
- Parachute?
- Thank you. Luke.
Thomas. stay close to me.
We all good. JP?
No. Not really. Miller.
Thank you.
Look what I found.
Doesn't look like much.
Well. it might not
look like much.
But if we're to...
believe. then there's a power in
there beyond any of our comprehension.
In proportion to the
blessing is the curse.
If you're not ready to receive the
blessing. you will receive the curse.
Caution is advised.
Why don't you take
it from here. Luke?
We're all here for you. right?
To heal you.
Let's not worry about
that just now. Go on.
Sorry. are you asking me.
or are you telling me?
I'm inviting you.
This is what you want. isn't it?
What's going on. Owen?
Just for once. for me. would
you mind keeping out of it?
You're not really sick. are you?
I'm getting pretty sick of you.
But you're not dying?
We're all dying. It's
just a question of when.
Whatever's in there is
just for you. isn't it?
You just need a rat
to test the trap.
Let's not be naive as to
the reason we're here.
This is the most valuable
commodity in the world. Charlotte.
Are you going or not?
Okay.
Let me help you with this.
Luke! No!
You see. I'm gonna
win this game.
Go.
Go!
His arm is healing.
Let's see if he can heal this.
No!
Why didn't you drink?
It's all yours.
I need to shut this down.
Wait here.
You have tried
the hand of mercy.
Now it is time to be
the hand of judgment.
Do you know what this is for?
If the wrong person drinks. you'll
need this key to shut it down.
The Fountain will tempt
even the strongest of souls.
but with that beguilement
comes a cruel deception.
If you drink that pure energy.
the Fountain must take life
from those that you love most.
But if it's yourself
you value the most.
there will be no
interface. no exchange.
just a direct connection
to infinite power.
It is merciless.
One day mankind will be ready to
receive what the Fountain offers.
Until then. it
must be protected.
Thomas. give me your hand.
Thomas. hurry.
Go. go. go. go.
Come on. Move. move. move.
Faster. Thomas. move.
Go. go. go. go.
- Thomas!
- Go!
Go. go. go. go.
Go. go. go.
Stay close. Thomas.
Luke!
Follow me this way!
Are you all in one piece?
Never better.
You?
Yeah.
Was it everything you wanted?
No.
Just...
everything.
And if you're not ready for
everything. don't drink.
Shall we?
Hey.
There aren't many who
can touch and not take.
So does that mean...
I'm impressive?
Everything all right. Abbas?
Everything copacetic?
Just another day at
the office. really.
You found the paintings.
And now you've found Owen Carver.
the criminal behind the crime.
Convenient for some.
Less work for you. huh?
So. does the chase continue?
Am I still hunting you down?
I think that's up to you.
Well. certain things
mustn't be found.
- Do you have a list?
- Do you?
I have a few ideas.
Well. as long as it doesn't
mean more work for me.
Goodbye. Luke.
Hey. thanks for not killing me.
Not yet.
But if you give me a reason
to chase you. I will.
Debs. we gonna live?
Next time. I'm going
inside with you.
That's fair. Not you. Murph.
Of course. You find what
you were looking for?
No. That was not what
I was looking for.
I'm sorry about your job.
Sorry you didn't get your prize.
Well... maybe Dad was right.
Some things were
meant to stay lost.
Always something to look for.
Listen. I know some people
in the city. collectors.
It's good money. Maybe I
could help you find a job.
Or maybe we could
find something lost.
Anything in mind?
I've got an idea.